https://medium.com/future-today/understanding-moonshot-thinking-783e3399c611

Understanding Moonshot Thinking - David Alayón




Moonshot Thinking Today
Nowadays there are many projects that have radically changed the way we consume, behave, 
communicate… Companies like Airbnb, Netflix or Uber are great exponents in their category and they 
are frequently mentioned when it comes to Exponential or Moonshot Thinking. I think they are real 
moonshots but that doesn’t mean they work with Moonshot Thinking. I’m sure that they have many of the 
necessary skills to think that way, but there are a lot of companies aware of this way of thinking that 
are working with it. Some examples are:
SpaceX: “Make humans a multiplanetary species”. SpaceX’s Falcon Heavy will be the world’s most powerful 
functioning rocket when it lifts off later this year.
Google’s self-driving car: “Make an autonomously-driven vehicle”. Google’s self-driving car prototype is 
electronically powered and equipped with the sensors and software to navigate and operate the car. Google 
self-driving cars have already driven 2 million miles on public roads.
Made In Space: “Make everything in space be made in space”. Made In Spaceput the first 3D printer on the 
International Space Station in 2014. Now, they’re building Archinaut, an autonomous manufacturing 
platform that can build and assemble large-scale structures in orbit (picture antennas in space that 
are larger than a football stadium, providing internet to everyone on earth).
There are countless examples: Blue Origin by Jeff Bezos or Virgin Galactic in the space world; JUST or 
Impossible Foods in the gastronomy universe (trying to eliminate animal suffering); and of course all 
projects related to the Singularity University. In Europe we also have a Moonshot factory that is also 
Spanish: Telefonica Alpha. Here is the video of its CEO, Pablo Rodriguez.


Background:
What is Moonshot Thinking?
In 1962, President John F. Kennedy gave a speech at Rice University where he delivered these words: “We choose to 
go to the moon in this decade”, that planted the seeds to align an entire country to go to the moon. We could 
say that JFK did not set that goal by knowing how we could achieve it or by promising it would be easy, he simply 
said that we were going to accomplish something incredible, setting the timeframe and inspiring toward action.
50 years later, Astro Teller has taken this discourse and transformed it into a philosophy, a certain mindset. 
Teller is the Director of X (formerly Google X), Google’s disruptive innovation division where they ideate, test 
and launch projects that use cutting-edge technologies to build solutions that can radically improve the world. 
Literally a Moonshots factory.
We could say that Moonshot Thinking is when you choose a huge problem, such as climate change, and propose to 
create a radical solution to the problem using a disruptive technology. For this to happen you have to abandon 
the idea of creating a 10% incremental improvement and focus on a solution that will bring ten times (x10) 
improvements, or solve it completely.
Image for post
At this point you are thinking in names like Ray Kurzweil or Peter Diamandis, books like Exponential 
Organizations, and terms like exponential thinking; subjects that we have dealt in depth in this publication. 
What Teller achieves is to bring all this together in one place, with a very concrete 
philosophy and an open framework.

Here you have some videos of Astro teller where he delves into the concept and where he also combines 
it with other elements such as SDG (sustainable development goals). Very interesting. You can also watch 
the documentary series “Moon Shot”, 9 episodes produced by J.J. Abrams about teams in different parts of 
the world that currently compete to complete their missions.